.TH ODIN 1 "Version 1.16"
.nh
.SH NAME
odin \- software build and configuration management system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B odin
[\ -c\ cache\ ] [\ -r\ ] [\ -R\ ] [\ command\ ...\ ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I odin
satisfies requests for files produced by software tools by automatically
invoking the minimum number of tools necessary to produce those files.
When a build step fails,
.I odin
will continue with other build steps that do not depend on the output
of the failed build step.
If
.I odin
is invoked with no command arguments,
.I odin
commands are read from standard input.
A simple emacs-like command history and editing facility is provided
(see editline(3)).
.LP
A basic
.I odin
command consists of a source file name followed by a sequence of operations,
where an operation is either a parameterization, a derivation, or a selection.
A parameterization is specified as a plus sign, followed by a parameter type,
optionally followed by a parameter value.
If the parameter value is a file, it is placed in parentheses.
A derivation is specified as a colon followed by a file type. 
A selection is specified as a slash followed by a label (a symbol).
A question-mark anywhere in an
.I odin
command will generate a help message
indicating what could appear in the place of the question-mark.
.LP
All files computed by
.I odin
are stored under a directory called a
.I cache.
The location of the cache is the value of the
.B \-c
command line argument if specified;
otherwise, it is the value of the shell variable
.B ODIN
if set; otherwise, it is the directory
.B .ODIN
in your home directory.
If the cache does not exist, a cache is created with symbolic links to a
set of tool packages.
By default, tool packages from 
.B /usr/local/lib/Odin
are used.  Additional packages can be included by specifying
a colon separated list of package directories in the
.B ODINPATH
shell variable.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c cache
Use the directory
.B cache
as the cache.
.TP
.B \-r
Reset the cache.
This deletes all computed files currently stored in the cache.
.TP
.B \-R
Reset the packages.
This resets the cache and installs the most recent version of each tool
package.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
test.c :exe
is the executable produced from compiling and loading
.B test.c.
.TP
test.c +? :exe
would generate a list of the parameter types that are applicable to the
computation of
.B :exe
from
.B test.c.
.TP
test.c,v +version=1.2 +inc_sp=(../include) :exe
is the executable produced from version 1.2 of
.B test.c
where include files are found in the directory
.B ../include.
.TP
test.c :output/DATA
is the output file named
.B DATA
produced when running the executable for
.B test.c.
.SH IDENTIFICATION
Author: Geoffrey M. Clemm
.break
geoffrey.clemm@us.ibm.com
.SH SEE ALSO
The Odin System Reference Manual
.br
make(1)
.br
editline(3)
.SH BUGS
